---
key: 1679
title: Kosher Deli Consternations
slug: Kosher_Deli_Consternations
type: musing
date: "2008-09-01 12:36:45"
created: "2008-09-01 12:41:00"
modified: null
location: Mercer Island, WA
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [Writing]
---

<p class="normal">It’s as if this was written for me. I’m in a comfy chair, waiting for something to happen. It’s only a matter of time before it does. I overheard things months ago that I wish stuck in my head long enough to get them out when I was inspired to sit in a comfy chair and pound out words. But seeing as my long-term memory is inaccessible, I have nothing to share but these words of consternations.</p><p class="normal">It feels strange to look at this empty page again. It’s not something I’ve done in a while. I barely write e-mail to my friends anymore. I don’t know if it’s work, a loss of motivation, or frustration that I’m not better at this writing thing. I’m just where I am and I wish I had something more to say or do or be. But there you have it. I’m consternating and while I’m not happy about it, I am happy about most other things in my life.</p><p class="normal">Wow, I forgot how to write. I’m trying to tell a narrative and nothing is coming out. It’s stilted and weird. The caffeine is hitting the spot and my fingers are still moving, but I’m looking for a reason for them to stop. Looking for something else that needs saying to be said.</p><p class="normal">Where’s the wit? Where’s the insight? Where’s the deep philosophical discussions? Oh, yeah, now I remember. It never was here. It was a bunch of masturbatory bullshit. One wonders why nobody read it. What’s the point? It’s a discussion of what I ate for breakfast in too many words for a person to get through. There was no story and no curvy anythings. I consternated and cried and pretended I could get somewhere if given enough time. I never defined that time and I never approached it. What I did do was keep on typing and hope beyond hope for something that is never here and never will be here.</p><p class="normal">At least I’m putting words to paper. It’s something I missed when I stopped doing it. I was never doing anything of value. I was pretending to do something but in the end I did nothing. I typed and typed and hoped that something would happen when nothing did. I’ve written that sentence thirty times already.</p><p class="normal">There’s something there. I know there is. I wait for it to come out to mean something. I have nothing. I love that word, nothing. It’s easier to say that word than to think about anything related to that word.</p><p class="normal">The consternations come strong. There is nobody who wants to read this, especially me. Okay, I’m the exception. I do want to read this again someday. I want to see what was going through my head when I wrote this. How the caffeine did not find a handhold. How it reached and I tried to pull myself up only to drop down the fifteen feet to the rough ground.</p><p class="normal">I return to the black on white screen, where the page seems to pop out at me. I don’t know why I like it, but it makes me feel like there is nothing but me there.</p><p class="normal">The darkness pulls me toward it. I wait for it. I need a character. I need a character with a twist. I never do well with the story or plot. But give me an interesting character and I’ll do nothing interesting with them. So it goes.</p><p class="normal">The coffee is making me anxious. It is turning me into something that I don’t like. Start over. Show me something that I haven’t seen before. Give me some <span class="italics">reason</span> to write. Describe something and take it from there. Or don’t. Think before you write. Writing without thinking is a useless exercise. When you think you may find something useful. Usually not, of course, but it is always possible.</p><p class="normal">I start with such good ideas, and slowly those good ideas devolve into nothingness.</p>
