---
key: 2605
title: Lunch writings
slug: Lunch_writings
type: musing
date: "2013-02-12 21:29:43"
created: "2013-02-12 21:29:16"
modified: null
location: Mercer Island, WA
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [30 minutes, potpourri]
---

<p class="normal">Taking my own suggestion, it is lunchtime and I’m sitting in front of a blank screen.</p><p class="normal">Tiger’s school called today. Another child accidentally bumped into her and she hit her head on something. The teacher applied ice and she seems fine, but they e-mailed to let us know. We’ll see the formal incident report later. Poor Tiger.</p><p class="normal">Dinosaur did not sleep well last night. He woke up screaming at around midnight, and cried again at 4am. Doolies went to him both times, fed him a bit, and he fell back to sleep. His magic may be wearing off. Or it could be our door wasn’t closed firmly enough. Poor Dinosaur.</p><p class="normal">It’s raining something fierce out there. It’s not that bad. I wanted to type “something fierce.” It’s more of a misty rain with moments of torrents, which happen mostly when I walk between buildings. For some reason, the newly built campus does not have covered walkways. It must have something to do with fire access.</p><p class="normal">My caffeine has not kicked in yet. I went for the purchased coffee instead of the free version. It is richer and thick like a hot chocolate. I took my caffeine in the form of a short Americano, with half of it poured out (I did that part myself to avoid funny looks from the quasi-baristas). I still try to control my caffeine intake. I’m up to one full cup in the morning usually at home either as an espresso or a drip, and one quarter to half a cup in the afternoon after lunch. The second cup gets me over the huge energy lull after lunch. The one I’m finding myself in right now.</p><p class="normal">I spent a few minutes of my precious writing time reading old story drafts. I have so many half started fragments. I was reading one about levitating yoga poses. I never did get to the good part in that story. The problem was I didn’t have a good part, only a build up to a good part. Such is my life. So many hobbies so little dedication. At least I have this now to pretend that I’m doing something.</p><p class="normal">Consternation alert. Wave off, wave off!</p><p class="normal">Okay, I’m smiling again. Therapy is working. Returning to better thoughts.</p><p class="normal">Did you know they have all the Cliff Notes online now? I remember they were evil from school. Not sure why it was evil. I guess because it was cheating. You read Cliff Notes instead of the book and you knew things. I also remember the English teachers always trying to put in questions on parts that the Cliff Notes did not cover. I am a good reader, and I think I read books in grade school. Although I don’t remember if that’s true. I didn’t realize an interest in English until much later.</p><p class="normal">Why was I looking at the Cliff Notes? I was trying to understand plot. I seem to miss that in my stories. At the time when something should happen, nothing ever does. Not that I plan to write stories anytime soon. Or maybe I do. It’s all so confusing.</p><p class="normal">I’m waiting for Doolies to finish reading to Tiger and get ready for Naginata. I started reading to Tiger, but before I made it past the first page, she realized that mommy should be reading, and started to cry until Doolies relieved me of my reading duties. Very the sad.</p><p class="normal">We’re back from Naginata. It was a good class. Lots of kata review. We ran out of time so no bogu practice. I enjoy bogu practice, but it’s nice not returning home all sweaty. Doolies is feeding Dinosaur and then it’s bath time and sleep time. I have early morning meetings the next couple of days. Hopefully Dinosaur cooperates with that.</p>
