---
key: 816
title: Morbid Illusions
slug: Morbid_Illusions
type: musing
date: "2005-06-03 22:42:05"
created: "2005-06-03 22:42:05"
modified: null
location: Seattle, WA
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [Story Drafts]
---

<p class="normal"><span class="italics">Warning: Ugh. This is bad--even for David writing.</span></p><p class="normal">Try as I might, I can’t slow the days. Most people want to drag out days, see how long they can pull out the putty of time. For me, I don’t have many of them left, and I want to use each of them to the best of my ability. I’m not writing this out of sympathy. I don’t want your sympathy or your kind wishes. I have enough support for both, and more would be like whistling on the wind. Instead, I want to share with you my experiences. I want you to learn something from my mistakes, and I hope that by sharing this with you during each hour of every day, the hours will move slower and I’ll be able to savor them for longer.</p><p class="normal">I won’t bore you with the details. My death is coming, and while I don’t welcome it, I’m resolved and content with my life. This isn’t about pity. I’ve said that already. I’ve spent my last days talking to everyone and anyone that will listen. I walked the streets and searched for listeners. I didn’t want to tell them my life’s story. I didn’t want to tell them anything. I wanted them to tell me about themselves. I know the information is going to disappear in a few weeks. I know that. My brain will decompose, and all of the great information they told me will be no more. But that’s what I’ve done my entire life, and I couldn’t stop now that I know it’s the end.</p><p class="normal">When you try to speak with random people on the streets, you find more people willing to talk than you expect. The streets were wet and gray when I walked them this morning. Most streets are that way. I rambled about for hours on the street with vendors and people rushing off to work. Many confused me for a beggar. They’d listen with half an ear, ready to bolt at the first mention of money or needs, or unfortunate situations. When I tried to explain that I wasn’t after anything, I was doing more of a science experiment, most would warm up. Some would continue running, throwing back an excuse about their time or obligations. A few of them were honest, but others were scared to talk to me, afraid it was a scam. I don’t look much like a college student anymore. The last twenty years has aged me beyond that look. But what I do have is an open face. I try to look willing and open to new ideas about all the things that they’re interested in hearing about. That’s what I try to get across to them. I’m interested in who they are, deep down within themselves.</p><p class="normal">I’m trying to leave a mark on the earth. I don’t know many people, and when I die, besides the lawyer who will handle the details, I won’t be missed. I doubt the lawyer will miss me much either—well, he’ll miss my retainer, I’m sure, buy not much else. That’s why I decided to do something with my life. This is the story about my last hurrah in the face of impending death. What I want to make of myself in the last seven days of my life. I either have an illness or a death threat—probably the latter. I got involved with the wrong people, and my time is about up. I could make a run for it and live on the lamb, but it’s not who I am. I pay my debts. They gave me seven days to close up my affairs. I plan on using every moment to right myself. I know it’s too late to get a spot in heaven, if heaven exists. I’m okay with that. I just want to leave the world a little better than when I came.</p><p class="normal">You would think someone who is going to die soon would not spend all of his time typing away at an internet café. This is another part of my plan: to record these moments in the hopes that when someone reads them, I’ll be able to convince others that I spent the time valuably. I don’t know why I care so much what other people think at this point in my life, but I do. I guess I’ve always been the type of person who looked for others to tell him he’s doing a good job.</p><p class="normal">I’ve lived a pretty fucked up life up to now. I don’t pretend that it’ll get better any time soon, but I have little choice now. It’s ending. I’ll go out honorably, at least as honorably as a man in my position can go out. I’ve come to terms peacefully on my claims. What’s more for me to do?</p>
