---
key: 950
title: Nanowrimo Day 14
slug: Nanowrimo_Day_14_1
type: musing
date: "2005-11-14 21:20:08"
created: "2005-11-14 21:20:08"
modified: null
location: Seattle, WA
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [Nanowrimo, Nano2005]
---

<p class="normal">Tommy and the Littlelings made two more stops in the Builders District. Their collections were good that day, and with the donations, Tommy figured she would have enough coins to buy oats and dried meat enough for the Littlelings back at the barn. She knew that other squads of Littlelings were also patrolling the streets. When she saw other squads, she switched directions, as did the other Littlelings. They understood that they had to stay away from each other so as not to raise the governors’ guards notice. A group of ten more orphans in one place raised eyebrows the guards, and they did not want to risk a confrontation with too many armed guards. While they could outrun most of the governors’ guardsmen, they all wore shrill whistles, which summoned other guards, and when enough gave chase, they could easily overwhelm the Littlelings and cause problems. Tommy found that it was best to keep their distance and travel in small packs. It had become worse over time, as the governors cracked down on the orphan theft and violence—any violence in town, because of the number of orphans, was blamed on the orphans. While they probably were to blame for a large percentage, Tommy was sure that others in the criminal element were taking advantage of their reputation.</p><p class="normal">Tommy and the five Littlelings headed to the Pretty Beak tavern for their last stop before returning to the barn. The rain sheeted to the water-covered ground as Tommy made her way down the middle of the road with her head down, the Littlelings crowding behind her. Few people were out on the streets and almost no wagons, the streets going from bad to almost impassable over the last couple of days, which should have surprised no one after three weeks of rain. As they turned the street that led to the tavern, the rain stopped, shutting off as abruptly as it began. Tommy and the Littlelings looked up in wonder. It was not every day where their silent wishes came true so unexpectedly.</p><p class="normal">The streets did not clear of water when the rain stopped, but Tommy and the Littlelings stepped faster, their heads held up, as they were happy to be out of the rain even if turned out to be only a quick spell. Tommy saw the Pretty Beak tavern at the end of the street. It was a large brick building with an awning in the front and back. A blue-painted front door kept swinging open and closed as the afternoon patrons made their way out onto the flooded roads. Business was particularly good during the rainy season, as commoners with leaky roofs looked for places where they could stay dry, and the Pretty Beak tavern was one of the most solidly built buildings in the Builders District.</p><p class="normal">Tommy led the Littlelings around to the back of the tavern where she would call on Tara Hensen, the elderly owner of the Pretty Beak tavern, a kind lady who usually provided scraps to the Littlelings and sometimes shared a cask of ale or wine, which, particularly on the gloomy autumn days, could lift the spirits of the barn. As Tommy made her way down the side alley, she saw Neal and Shel standing on the back porch, both looking up and studying the sky. Neal was saying something, and Shel watched Neal strangely, as if he did not understand his words.</p><p class="normal">Tommy slowed to study the pair. Neal was Tara’s grandson, and while she did not care much for his skinny limbs or wobbly eyes, she did not much pick on him or shake him down because of his grandmother’s kindness. Shel was a different story. Tommy knew that Shel’s mother worked at the Pretty Beak tavern, and his grandfather lived with him and his mother in the house next to the tavern. Shel was a tall boy with red hair with a brow that was more often crinkled than not. He had impressed Tommy during their last encounter, actually trying to stand up to her and the Littlelings. Of course, it had been a wasted effort and would cost him twice as much the next time she ran into him outside the protection of the tavern, but she liked the spine he showed. He seemed more learned than most of the children in the Builders District. She could picture him hunched over a book writing numbers for the noblemen in town. She thought he might be a good person to know. But that was later and this was now. He was still a target who carried too much money around with him, and until she could find some other way to use him, she would do what was best of the Littlelings.</p><p class="normal">“It’s strange when the rain just stops, isn’t it boys,” Tommy said. The Littlelings had hung back when Tommy approached. Tara did not like too many children crowding close to the tavern, even at the rear entrance. She did not want to lose business because of her association with some of the less acceptable members of the district.</p><p class="normal">Shel and Neal looked up startled. Neal made a move as if to run into the tavern, but Shel squeezed his arm and whispered in Neal’s ear; the whisper made Neal grimace and nod. Neal stood his ground and even took a step down the stairs leading into the muddy road.</p><p class="normal">“No stranger than seeing you come begging at the back door for food,” Shel said. Tommy knew some of his confidence was inflated because of his proximity to the Pretty Beak tavern and Shel probably knew of the arrangement with Tara. Some of the Littlelings started toward the porch, but Tommy waived them off and back down the alley. She would not ruin her relationship with Tara for anything, not even for this bad spoken boy who needed a street lesson badly.</p><p class="normal">“One day you’ll understand what it means to have mouths to feed,” Tommy said. Shel reacted unexpectedly. His face looked ashen and he actually looked ashamed of his earlier comment. Tommy suppressed a look of triumphant that threatened to cross her face. “We’re here to see Tara. If you wouldn’t mind bringing her out, we’ll leave you to your sky gazing in peace.”</p><p class="normal">Neal went through the door, glancing back before closing it behind him. Shel waited on the balcony. Neal returned with Tara in tow a few minutes later. For such an old lady, Tara was the model of good health and happiness. Her back was straight and her hair was always tied tightly in a bun on top of her head. Her eyes were large and clear, and she always had a smile on her face for Tommy.</p><p class="normal">“It’s good to see you, dear. How are the Littlelings doing? Oh, my. I didn’t realize the rain had stopped. This is a good omen.”</p><p class="normal">Tommy smiled politely. “It stopped a few minutes ago, Ms. Hensen. I bet in a few days the roads will be clear and the trade will start again. It’s always better for the Littlelings when there’s bustling trade about.”</p><p class="normal">“I would imagine it is. Speaking of trade, we’re a bit short on supplies these days. Once the rains pass it’ll be a different story. But I did save something for a rainy day—I just didn’t realize it would be this many rainy days. Neal, go fetch three wheels of cheese from the cupboard. I’ve been saving them for the Littlelings since we got the last shipment in.”</p><p class="normal">Neal knuckled his forehead and ran back into the tavern.</p><p class="normal">“I’ve been hearing some rumors about town, Tommy. The district controller has been asking too many questions about the children in this town, especially about the orphans. And we’ve been hearing that the (farmer who owns the barn: Petra?) has been spreading lots of money around the district and the governors coffers. Are you sure you’re okay in that barn of his?”</p><p class="normal">“Petra and me has got a deal, Ms. Hensen. I protect his property and he lets us stay in the barn. Besides, he’s not using it for anything, and we keep it clean and keep our hands off his crop. It’s a good deal for everyone.”</p><p class="normal">“I’m sure it is, dear. I’m just passing on what I hear. I’m worried for you and the children, out in the cold and rain with nobody to watch over you.”</p><p class="normal">“We are getting good at watching over ourselves, don’t you go and worry yourself over that. I’ll take care of the Littlelings and Ms. Hensen, and have plenty of time to work over the Builders District.” Tommy did not like when any adults tried to question how she and the Littlelings lived. Compared to the orphanages, they lived like kings out in the barn. She knew that from firsthand experience.</p><p class="normal">“I know you do the best you can, Tommy. I never doubt that. I just worry is all. Ah, here’s Neal. Neal, give Tommy the cheese wheels.” Neal approached Tommy slowly and held out the cheese for her to take. Tommy gently grabbed the cheese wheels one at a time, and handed them to one of the Littlelings who came over to help.</p><p class="normal">“Thank you Neal. It’s very kind of you to help. And, as always, Ms. Hensen, me and the Littlelings are more than grateful for your assistance. If there’s anything more we can do for you, you let us know.”</p><p class="normal">“Be safe is all we ask, Tommy. You and the Littlelings both. And heed what I said about Petra lastname. He might not be as friendly as you think.”</p><p class="normal">Tommy nodded to Tara and left by the side alley. She felt Shel’s eyes on her back until she turned out of sight of the rear entrance. Perhaps it was time to give Petra lastname a visit. The rainy season was almost over, and the highwaymen would be returning soon. She knew that now was the best time to negotiate their deal, and make sure that he intended to keep up his end of the bargain.</p><p class="normal">The lastname barn was not the Littlelings first camp grounds. The Littlelings had move three times over the last four years, each time to larger spaces as Tommy found people who she could swindle or bargain with for space. She knew the lastname barn would not be the Littlelings last place. She had hoped to spend the rest of the year there, hopefully through summer when the harvest began and she would offer the Littlelings to help in the harvest for supplies for the winter. If what Tara said was true, Tommy was not sure that she would have that opportunity. Losing the barn with winter approaching was not something she wanted to think about. It would be difficult to find a shelter large enough for the Littlelings in the cold weather. Even if things went bad with Petra, Tommy knew that he would not be heartless enough to throw them out of his abandoned barn. She would play on his sympathies and his feelings as a father of three. Even in a city where there were so many children, Tommy knew that a father was a father, and that she can rely on their assistance, especially when times were tough.</p><br><br><p class="normal">Shel watched Tommy and the Littlelings leave the area behind the Pretty Beak’s tavern. She was not so tough when there were adults around. Shel could not even remember ever being afraid of her or her Littlelings. Perhaps he had finally outgrown his fears. The Littlelings were so small, and Shel knew he had grown over the last year. Neal had not grown as fast, but Shel was almost as tall as Tommy, and he felt that at last he could handle her and her children, even if their last meeting had not gone as he had planned.</p><p class="normal">“Is Audrel still in there?” Shel asked Tommy.</p><p class="normal">“I didn’t see her in there. You sure she came to work today?”</p><p class="normal">“I thought she did. What else would she be doing?”</p><p class="normal">Word count: 2,016</p><p class="normal">Words remaining: 19,542</p><p class="normal">Caffeination: Who cares anymore? I’m an addict. I can accept it.</p><p class="normal">Feeling: Damn, writing was hard today. I had a bit of a headache again after a not-so-fulfilling sleep, but it passed when I started writing. The writing still felt jilted and forced, and I was happy to put enough words on the page to meet today’s goal. I’m excited about where this is heading. My list of what needs to happen over the next few days keeps growing. I know I should be working on building to the climax of the story, but except for the episodes I have planned, I’m not sure what or where the climax will take place. Suffice to say, I’m happy today is done, and I’ll be even happier when I delete this entire scene in lieu of something better. And, yeah, I tacked that last part on at the end to make count. Stopped bothering me already.</p>
