---
key: 291
title: sara
slug: sara_4
type: musing
date: "1996-02-03 00:00:00"
created: "1996-02-03 00:00:00"
modified: null
location: Crystal City, VA
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [Letters]
---

<p class="normal">Dear Sara,</p><p class="normal">I was very happy to receive your last letter, and to find it so long.  Very impressive.  Life over in the nation’s capital has been pretty uneventful for me.  Nothing new to report.  I’m still in the same job.  Still bored out of my mind at the same job.  And I’m still promising myself that I’m going to finish up my resume and look for another job. . .tomorrow that is.  Sigh.</p><p class="normal">I have heard back from three law schools for next semester.  I got rejected from NYU law, but I got into Brooklyn Law, and Syracuse Law (not much of a consolation prize, but I’ll take what I can get.)  I’m still waiting to hear from Duke Law (dreaming), and Cornell (probably another dream.)  Not sure if I want to go to law school.  Not sure what I want to do.  But, that’s nothing new.  Confusion breeds inspiration, or something like that.</p><p class="normal">Now, to answer some of your questions from your last letter:  Living on my own is pretty incredible (Mr. Grownup?  The same guy who watches cartoons on Saturday mornings? I think not.)  I do miss having my friends around to talk to, and my apartment does occasionally get a little messy (like now for instance.  This was the weekend to clean it up, so here I am, procrastinating by writing letters.), but aside from those minor set backs, it’s fun.  I would probably enjoy it even more if I actually had friends here to talk with.  But, I’m hoping with time, my incredible social abilities (cough, cough) will come through.  I do hang out with the people at work occasionally – more exactly once or twice.  But, I’m hoping to build on that.  I have joined a karate gym, about a two month ago.  I’m in the best physical shape of my life, and having a great time.  I’ve also met a couple of people through that, but nothing has come through on that.  So socially, I’m pretty much a zero.</p><p class="normal">I’m afraid I haven’t found a place of worship.  Just call me the bad Jew.  Lazy Jew is probably a better word for it.  I currently seem to have very little inspiration to pursue my religious identity.  It comes and goes in me.  I have been pursuing my philosophical pursuits more and more, but it seems that Judaism has taken a back seat now.  As for keeping a kosher kitchen, I can’t say that I have been remotely successful in that, either.  Only one set of dishes and silverware, but, if given the choice I’ll usually buy kosher foods, it’s not something I’m looking for.  The spiritual need is still not there for me.  And with nobody to share it with, I don’t know if it ever will be there.</p><p class="normal">I’m very happy to hear about your interview at Stern college.  Although, I must again caution you about living in a sterile environment.  While you can look out for my spiritual advancement (however lacking, and disappointing it is), I’ll try to look out for your physical and intellectual advancement.  By closing yourself off to new experiences – such as life in a secular dorm – you are losing out on learning about what life has to offer.  How can one understand and know life, if one is always looking at it from only one side of the fence? There can be no comparison, no understanding.  While I again respect your Judaic needs, I must at least try to make a case for your intellectual needs.</p><p class="normal">As for people being intrinsically good – I can spend hours debating that with you.  I of course think there is no such thing as good or evil.  But, that’s for another time and place.  Your example from your cousin’s house is just another example of life in a bubble.  Not understanding, or dealing with other cultures causes fear, the very basis of prejudice.  You are very different from the girls who you are living with now, because you have been exposed to other cultures, and other aspects outside of Judaism.  Religion, like any culture, is founded on brainwashing.  I’ve said this many times, and I still believe it.  Without experience, it’s impossible to counter such thoughts.  You need to experience things that are contrary to what you are being taught, or what you learn from listening to your parents.</p><p class="normal">Inside a bubble made of Judaism, you lack the ability to experience everything.  Racism is learned by fearing something that you don’t understand.  You ask: how can a religious Jew be racist? The same way that anyone can be racist.  Because they are human.  Being Jewish does not make you a perfect person.  Believing in G-d, and studying His word does not make you love all people.  Only by experiencing people, and dealing with different cultures can you learn to respect and deal with people.</p><p class="normal">I’m happy that you are having such a great time over in Israel.  I’m just worried that you are not giving yourself the chance to experience everything you possibly can.  I’m not saying that I have that chance because I’m a bad Jew, but because I leave myself open for everything and anything.  That becomes harder as time passes.  As I just snuck up on twenty-two years of life, I’m noticing that.  But, alas, I’m babbling.</p><p class="normal">I’m afraid this is going to be a short letter for me.  My life has been pretty uneventful, as has my thoughts for the past couple of months.  I hope to hear from you soon, and I wish you the best of luck in pursuing your intellectual, as well as religious thoughts.  Keep in mind that you always have a cynic here to throw your ideas off of, and to make fun of you.</p><p class="normal">Saturday, February 10, 1996</p><p class="normal">Okay, here’s a little addendum.  I didn’t get a chance to print this out and mail it, and since I actually have a little news, here it is:  I got a call from Syracuse’s financial aid office.  They’re offering me a full scholarship (not as impressive as your scholarships, but it’s something.)  This doesn’t really change much, but it is news.  Still haven’t heard from the other schools.</p><p class="normal">And of course, when there’s good news, bad news must follow.  My job is becoming quite close to intolerable.  If I didn’t have rent to pay I would have quit Friday.  As it is now, I’m trying to change groups to a much more interesting and challenging group (which will hopefully pay more.)  I’m also planning on making a mass mailing tomorrow of my new and improved resumes and cover letters.  Who knows? Maybe someone will offer me that dream job, and I won’t have to worry about school.  But then again, Ed McMahon and Dick Clark could also just drop off a check for $11 million, and I really wouldn’t have to worry anymore (of course, that requires you to actually fill out the sweepstakes entry.  Sigh.  Always a catch.)  Take care, and write soon.</p><p class="normal">Love Always,</p><p class="normal">David</p>
