---
key: 645
title: Snappy Greenstalk
slug: Snappy_Greenstalk
type: musing
date: "2005-01-28 00:00:00"
created: "2005-01-28 00:00:00"
modified: null
location: Seattle, WA
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [Story Drafts]
---

<p class="normal">Snappy Greenstalk picked green beans. Snappy’s grandpoppy, the oldest Greenstalk that he knew, told Snappy that as far back as he remembered, Snappy’s family always picked green beans. Snappy never liked green beans. He found them bland and gritty. Snappy was afraid to tell his family this because, as anyone who knows anything about green bean families would tell you, green bean families like green beans and dislike anyone who doesn’t like green beans. Snappy liked his family and wanted them to like him, so Snappy pretended to enjoy green beans.</p><p class="normal">On the Thursday after the harvest, Snappy celebrated his eighth birthday. His parents threw a big party and served green bean casseroles, sautéed green beans, green bean salad, green bean burgers, green beans and broccoli, and green bean ice cream. All of Snappy’s friends came to his party. Snappy was having a great time, but he wasn’t eating any of the green beans.</p><p class="normal">“Such a big birthday boy,” mom said. “Have more green beans.”</p><p class="normal">“Mom. I’m eight years old now, and it’s my birthday.”</p><p class="normal">“Yes you are, Snappy. You’re eight big years. If you have some of this casserole, you’ll grow big and strong like your dad.”</p><p class="normal">Snappy grinded his teeth and stuffed the casserole into his mouth. He chewed and smiled, and Snappy and his friends played pin the green bean on the donkey. But Snappy did not have a wonderful time. He did not feel like smiling, and he did not want to pin anything on the donkey. When it came time to open his presents, he could not get excited at all his new toys and clothing.</p><p class="normal">After the party, Snappy’s father picked Snappy up and carried him to the porch.</p><p class="normal">“You’re growing like a log,” dad said. “It’ll be time to pick you from the vine soon enough enough.”</p><p class="normal">“I’m not that big yet, dad.”</p><p class="normal">“Why weren’t you happy at your party, Snappy? You had a sour puss the whole afternoon. We thought you would like a birthday party. You talked about it for weeks”</p><p class="normal">Snappy did not want to tell dad what he was thinking. He was afraid that if dad knew, he would not like Snappy. Snappy also did not want to lie to dad. Dad had told him that lying was very bad, and Snappy did not want to be a bad boy. Snappy took a deep breath and said, “It’s because I don’t like green beans, and mom wanted me to eat green beans.”</p><p class="normal">Dad looked at Snappy. Dad opened his eyes large, and it looked like he didn’t believe Snappy. “Snappy, you know we’re the Greenstalk family.”</p><p class="normal">“Yes, dad.”</p><p class="normal">“And you know the Greenstalk family picks green beans. That’s what we do and that’s what we always did.”</p><p class="normal">“Yes, dad.”</p><p class="normal">“What you probably don’t know is that when I was a child, about your age, I told Grandpoppy that I didn’t like green beans.”</p><p class="normal">“Really?”</p><p class="normal">“Really, Snappy. Do you know what Grandpoppy told me? He said, ‘Son, we’re the Greenstalk family and we pick green beans.’”</p><p class="normal">“And what did you say?”</p><p class="normal">“I didn’t say anything, but I went out the next day and picked green beans and I’ve been picking green beans every since. The thing about green beans is that there are always green beans to pick. You can’t say that about everything.”</p><p class="normal">“Oh.”</p><p class="normal">Dad picked up Snappy and carried him to bed. He tucked him under the covers and kissed Snappy on his forehead. “Happy birthday, son.”</p><p class="normal">“Thanks, dad.”</p>
