---
key: 1154
title: "The Safety Movie - Synopsis"
slug: The_Safety_Movie__Synopsis
type: musing
date: "2006-12-08 20:56:20"
created: "2006-12-08 20:56:20"
modified: null
location: Seattle, WA
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [Story Ideas]
---

<p class="normal">Stuck in a flight where the safety movie keeps repeating. The flight attendants can’t turn it off. It starts driving the passengers mad. The passengers decide to take matters into their own hands. A mutiny forms on board the airplane to stop the movie.</p><p class="normal">“The tyranny of the cabin crew has to end,” the leader of the mutiny declares. Row by row the leader begins to recruit other passengers in his scheme. His scheme is simple: they will rush the middle of the airplane where they figure the movie is originating, and destroy the movie machine. “The madness must end, and if they can’t do it, we will do it.”</p><p class="normal">There are two sky marshals on board. When the mutiny leader approaches them to join, they reveal themselves as federal agents.</p><p class="normal">There is an evil flight attendant, the chief flight attendant. She’s eighty years old if she’s twenty. It’s her job to keep order in the flight and she sees the safety movie as not a big deal. The captain tries to deal with her but she won’t hear it. “I know you have final say,” she tells the captain. “But the cabin is our domain. This is a safety issue, not a flight issue.” The captain backs down. He doesn’t hear the safety movie and his only communication with the cabin is through the evil flight attendant. The other flight attendants are afraid of their chief. She has grounded over ten flight attendants in her career, and, the rumor went, drove another flight attendant to suicide in her hotel room on a layover leg in an international flight. Although nothing was ever proved, the chief was never allowed to fly international again.</p><p class="normal">The mutiny chief convinces the sky marshals to go along with him. He plans two pincer movements. The first is to take possession of the area around the movie box. The second is to secure one of the flight attendant phones to call the flight deck and explain the situation. The chief flight attendant is not idle during this plotting. She has secured all the flight phones and has flight attendants guarding the areas. She also convinced the captain to keep the seatbelt light on during the whole flight. There is a distinct smell of urine in the cabin, as she won’t allow passengers to leave their seats to visit the restroom.</p><p class="normal">The mutiny leader is now passing his communications through his trusted seat mates. His instructions get garbled and he tries to pass notes through the cabin. The chief flight attendant intercepts one of the notes and learns about part of the plan. The mutiny leader has instituted codenames for the passengers to ensure that the plot can’t be thwarted by a note interception.</p><p class="normal">The chief flight attendant redoubles her efforts and removes all the receivers of the phones that can call in to the flight deck except for the front one, which she personally guards. The flight attendants deploy the meal carts at strategic points along the cabin to stop the passengers from moving about. The mutiny leader is not deterred. The flight is mostly full but he already begins hatching plans to get around her counter moves.</p><p class="normal">With everything set up, it seems the mutiny leader is giving the call to begin the mutiny. A large man in the back of the plane rings his call button, which the note the evil flight attendant found said was the predetermined signal. The chief flight attendant had been waiting for the signal as well. She waits until she’s sure this was it. She now thinks she has identified the ring leader and approaches his seat. It is toward the back near the bathroom, which makes sense as the notes were coming from that direction.</p><p class="normal">The call button is a diversionary tactic. When she leaves the front phone to the custody of two of her most trusted flight attendants, the real leader gives the signal. He throws the greasy hamburger they had served for dinner at the ceiling of the plane. When the hamburger sticks, the mutineers rouse and begin their planned actions.</p><p class="normal">And then something happens. Okay. So this is shit. Shocking and/or surprising, eh?</p>
