---
key: 423
title: what to post in musings
slug: what_to_post_in_musings
type: musing
date: "2003-12-25 00:00:00"
created: "2003-12-25 00:00:00"
modified: null
location: Houston, TX
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [Diary, Doolies]
---

<p class="normal">I've been thinking about what I should post in my musings section.  Obviously, I'll post extraneous thoughts that I come up with.  But I was thinking more particularly if I should be writing my daily happenings, for example, should I discuss my week with Doolies in NYC, my visits with my family, my hotel stay? Or should I leave those for asides, like found in my e-mails and letters, and instead concentrate on my thoughts and sharing my latest (or old and repetitive) theories on the world.  (Doolies has pointed out that I start many of these musings with either thoughts on writing or with complaints that I have nothing to write.  This sounds awfully familiar in this case.)</p><p class="normal">I've come to realize that my life is not too exciting.  A famous person (who I've since rediscovered as Benjamin Franklin), once said that you can either write something worth reading or do something worth writing about. Since I admit that I don't do very much that's worth writing about, for now, I will (try to) write something worth reading.</p><p class="normal">I finished my <a href="/Short%20Stories/2003-10-01-00:00:00/" title="Grelko Story">Grelko Story</a> in the airport.  I'm not terribly proud of it, but I'm going to leave it alone.  I don't think it's going to benefit much from continued prodding.  I'll instead move onto a new story, perhaps continuing my monsters story, or starting something completely different.  I've spent too much time on what started as a writing exercise (when I first started writing short stories, my intention was to write--I forget exactly how many--a bunch, and try a different technique in each story).  This will all be done while continuing to work on this site.  I've got the basics down, but after long discussions with Chuck about his site, I have new ideas about improving this, and a new desire to fix the photographs section (even though it's going to take a ton of work and a ton of editing with Photoshop, something, I will admit, I am not looking forward to.</p><p class="normal">Breaking with my decision not to report on the uninteresting moments in my life (i.e., most of my life), I'm currently on my way to Dallas (through Houston) to spend the remainder of the week with Doolies's family.  I've enjoyed this past week more than I've ever enjoyed a birthday week (even though it is my thirtieth, a horrible birthday to contemplate), probably--or, more accurately, definitely--because of Doolies.  I won't get into what she means to me now (since it's something I'm not too comfortable discussing).  On my way to NYC, I started drafting a poem I wanted to give her with her holiday gifts (gifts which are embarrassing cheap compared to what she presented me).  I've decided to <a href="/Poetry/2003-12-19-00:00:00/" title="post the poem">post the poem</a>, even though I never gave it to her (in a way, posting it here is a cowards way of giving it to her).  I don't think it's very good, and it doesn't even get close to expressing what I feel, or what I've been thinking, but I'll post it nonetheless with the usual warnings about me being a bad poet, etcetera.</p><p class="normal">Other than that, I have no new theories to share.  I guess I'm not very good at following through with my plans, but that, I think, will take time.  I'll post my vacation pictures when I get home.  I'll also post my family pictures then, although I will slowly (but surely) be redoing how the photos work and how they're organized (always remembering that while presentation is important, it's the content that most people care about).</p>
