---
key: 361
title: what to write about
slug: what_to_write_about
type: musing
date: "2001-12-25 00:00:00"
created: "2001-12-25 00:00:00"
modified: null
location: Houston, TX
hidden: false
no_front: false
locked: false
width: null
height: null
tags: [Writing, Diary]
---

<p class="normal">What is it I want to write about? Is there anything I truly want to write about? I figure if I type it would be easier to figure out what I wanted to do.  What do you think is currently wrong with you? What is wrong with me? That's a bad place to start.  I guess what's wrong with my current lifestyle is probably a better place to start than what is wrong with me.  We can write books on that.  Okay.  Here's what my current life looks like:</p><p class="normal">First, I work.  There is nothing wrong with that.  I enjoy the job.  It's challenging, I see lots of room for growth and improvement--we can get into that another time--and it pays my bills.  That is of course what work is supposed to do.  Now, what is wrong with my life? I guess I'm a social incompetent.  Although, 'incompetent' is probably not the right word.  I am thinking more along the lines of loser.  There's a nice 80's word for you: Loser.  Explain why you're a loser.  Again, you're asking me to espouse on too broad of a topic.  I thought we were talking lifestyle only.  Okay, now tell me about the rest of your lifestyle.  You got through your job.  What else is there?</p><p class="normal">I think that's one of the biggest problems.  There is nothing more out there besides my job.  I watch a lot of television.  Probably at least 10 hours a week.  Is that all? That's a good question.  I think I'm a little scared to actually figure out the exact amount of time that I spend watching television.  What else is there? I play video games.  I'm currently stuck on Dark Age of Camelot, a MMORPG.  I won't even go into describing it, but I've spent too many hours to count.  More hours than I watch television, even.  What else is there in your life'</p><p class="normal">Then there are my relationships.  I have a few friends that I speak with.  I have a collection of male friends: Shannon, Steven, Will, Scott, Chris, etc., and a pair of female friends: Jean and Nicole.  There won't be a relationship there, but I like talking with them.  It makes me feel like I'm capable of having a relationship (even if I'm really not--or so I keep telling myself in my depressed state).</p><p class="normal">Is that your entire life? As far as I can think, yes.  I need to change something.  Oh, and I go to a Jewish bible studies class for singles once a week.  I had hoped to meet someone or at least have interesting conversations there, but I've mostly failed on both parts.  The conversations are not all that interesting, and I have to occasionally force an argument just to amuse me (or feed my ego, which is the more likely story).  As for meeting women, I think I almost met a nice Argentinean woman there.  She's not from Argentina, but lives there currently.  She was quite friendly, until I got her lost on the way home.  It figures.</p><p class="normal">So where does that leave us? That's my life above.  More or less compete.  Of course, there's also my family back in the New York area.  I love them very much, but while they're of course part of my life, it's a different part than I'm talking about here.</p><p class="normal">I was just distracted.  I get that way a lot.  I guess it's my short attention span, or maybe it's my 'boredom' syndrome.  They say smart people are bored a lot.  I don't think that's true.  I think boredom is a sign of a short attention span.  If you can concentrate on one thing and do it well, you wouldn't be that bored.</p><p class="normal">Is writing something you want to concentrate on? Why do you want to write? I guess ego is definitely part of it.  I like feeding my ego.  Is that all? No.  I also like feeling, and writing, I think, might help me feel.  What else? Also, writing might be like programming.  Something I can lose myself in.  When writing a story, I want to get involved.  I want to escape, to be there, but at the same time, create something new.  I get that now with video games.  I get to escape the real world, live in a different, computerized world and figure out what makes it tick.  That's what's interesting about those MMORPG I didn't talk about before.  It's figuring out what makes those worlds work.  I enjoy figuring out the formulas behind the fighting.  How the group dynamics work.  Not to mention, going back to the first point, the ego part.  When I build my character up through the levels, I can look down on the lower level characters.  That's not the real reason.  I don't exactly look down at them, but I do feel a sense of accomplishment.  It's of course fake, but, then again, what isn't a fake sense of accomplishment in this weird-weird world?</p><p class="normal">I left off the gym and basketball on things that I do above.  That and reading and now hopefully writing as well.  I guess those are things I have to start getting back into, all of them.</p><p class="normal">What are you proposing? I propose to write.  Write like I like to write and not how I expect to do well as a writer.  Don't worry about the fame and fortune.  It's not going to come to you through writing.  You have a career, and you're good at it.  Let's concentrate on writing for you; to make you a better person.  That's what it's all about.  That's why we're here, to learn to be a better person.  Now is your chance to learn.  You can start here.  <span class="underline">It is so</span>.</p>
